[Music]
Thuy Dung Le's nickname has no accents,
so she translated it herself. Excuse me, teacher, I would like to ask about the teachings you gave
us earlier on
how to perform meritorious deeds and make offerings to the unborn child during pregnancy.
Could you please teach
us more about children who have
reached the stage of being
born into a human being, that is,
before the
age of 13, they completely rely
on the merit and karma we share with them.
When they begin to grow up, they
create more karma for themselves. You can
divide it into stages: when they start
breastfeeding, meaning we completely serve them,
we create more merit for them to benefit from.
When they start to speak and run,
the merit we create for them
decreases because they become self-reliant. At
13, they still
depend on us more, so we
create more merit for them to transform,
but starting from 13...  From a young age onwards,
meaning they have hidden feelings of love and affection,
that is, they become self-reliant and no
longer depend on us, then we create
less merit for them. That is, they may or may
not accept it. When they are young, it's the
karmic force of the child
receiving from their parents. Therefore, we should
first create merit for our children while
they are still in the womb, second
while they are breastfeeding, third when they
can speak and run, and so on,
gradually until they become self-reliant and truly
independent like us. At that point, parents can hardly
create merit for us because
we don't receive much from them. That's
why the Buddha taught that if a gift is
given to me and I don't accept it, then the gift belongs to
someone else. If we are in the same mindset as our parents,
then the two of us can give each other
more merit; this is called
shared karma. Do you understand
this clearly? Shared karma means being in agreement and having the same mindset.
For example, if parents encourage their child to do
something and the child does it immediately, that's two
shared karma. Therefore, parents
create merit and make offerings for their children.  I myself have
received more than that, but if parents and children are
not in agreement, then the parents create
blessings for the child, but the child hasn't received them yet. That's the
miraculous element in our consciousness.
Next question: "Teacher, I
just lost my younger brother. My parents are
very devastated. What can I do so that my brother can be
reborn and return to be my
brother and my parents' child? My parents are 46
years old now, and what can I do to
help them get through this difficult time?"
This is a very filial and filial child.
Today, I heard about the
karmic connection between father and mother
in a family. You can
tell your mother that the baby doesn't
have a karmic connection with you, and the family can do good
deeds and dedicate the merit to the baby,
praying that the baby will soon be born
into your family because your
parents have this wish.
[Applause]
[Music]